CODE GATE — lane <N>. A person holds this card: no worker runs it, and the driver never commits. Nothing is committed unless you choose to commit it.

The gate becomes ready only when the newest implementation-review verdict is PASS; the driver records how many files are staged in the result; the path list is in the driver log (first eight). It runs no build of its own: the review cards ran the plan's Run commands, and here you run whatever verification you want.

WHAT YOU DO (from this card, in the dashboard or the CLI):
1. Wait for the driver's comment starting "GATE READY" on this card. Until it appears the review has not passed, and a verdict you write is not applied (the driver answers "NOT APPLIED" and says why).
2. Read the plan at <PLAN> and the newest review verdict (RVa, RVc, or their latest re-review round), with the run evidence in the driver log.
3. Check by hand every success criterion <REFINED> marks `manual at Gc`; no card could automate those.
4. Inspect the staged index (git diff --cached --stat) and commit and push it if you want this work in history, with an explicit pathspec. Committing is never required, before or after PASS.
5. Answer with a COMMENT on this card whose first word is the verdict:
   PASS   (or PASS: <your words>) — accept; the driver completes this card and the next lane starts.
   REWORK: <what is wrong> — the coder revises and the review re-runs (up to the board's rework cap). To send it to a test card instead, start the reason with OWNER: TW or OWNER: TI. This card stays held and gets a new GATE READY when the review passes; answer that one. The reason is required.
   Small changes you can also make yourself: edit the files, then comment PASS. To abandon the lane, do not comment: stop the driver and reset the board.

DO NOT — each of these stops the board or skips your decision:
- block this card: a gate blocked by hand can halt the board;
- move it to another column (Done included) or archive it: use the comment, which records your verdict;
- put the verdict anywhere but the first word of a comment: other comments are ignored.

With auto-gates on, the driver completes this card itself on the evidence and you do nothing.

CLI alternative: hermes kanban --board <BOARD> complete <YOUR-CARD-ID> --result "PASS: accepted"
