PLAN GATE — lane <N>. A person holds this card: no worker runs it, and the driver never commits. Nothing is committed unless you choose to commit it.

The gate becomes ready only when the newest plan-review verdict is PASS; the driver records that evidence in the result.

WHAT YOU DO (from this card, in the dashboard or the CLI):
1. Wait for the driver's comment starting "GATE READY" on this card. Until it appears the plan review has not passed, and a verdict you write is not applied (the driver answers "NOT APPLIED" and says why).
2. Read <PLAN> and the newest plan-review verdict (the RVp card, or its latest re-review round), including its NOTES and any gap the plan card reported, and its probe log (`<RUNS>/scratch/<that card's id>/probe/probe-log.md`): what the plan's own files and commands did when the review ran them. A PASS without a complete, clean log for the plan it passed never reaches you as a plain PASS — the driver files that review again, with the probe, twice at most; after that it reaches you marked `UNPROBED PASS`, and this gate waits for you even on a board that auto-gates it: nobody ran the plan, so read it, run the probe yourself (the gate's evidence names the command's --out), and comment PASS or REWORK.
3. Answer with a COMMENT on this card whose first word is the verdict:
   PASS   (or PASS: <your words>) — accept; the driver completes this card and the unit-test card starts.
   REWORK: <what is wrong with the plan> — the planner revises it and the plan review re-runs (up to the board's rework cap). This card stays held and gets a new GATE READY when the review passes; answer that one. The reason is required: the revision is built from it.
   Small changes you can also make yourself: edit <PLAN>, then comment PASS. Your edit is not probed: where it changes a file block or a Run command, run the probe on it first (the review's command, with your own --out).
4. Optional: inspect and commit what is staged (git diff --cached --stat). Committing is never required. Where the work directory is not git-controlled there is no index: nothing is staged, and the lane reads its files by path.

DO NOT — each of these stops the board or skips your decision:
- block this card: a gate blocked by hand can halt the board;
- move it to another column (Done included) or archive it: use the comment, which records your verdict;
- put the verdict anywhere but the first word of a comment: other comments are ignored.

With auto-gates on, the driver completes this card itself on the evidence and you do nothing.

CLI alternative: hermes kanban --board <BOARD> complete <YOUR-CARD-ID> --result "PASS: accepted"
